this is going to make you so happy easy
mode yes especially if you're someone
who's over 40 now listen if you're under
40 God bless your sweet little heart
that's okay too but right now it's our
time and anyone who's over 40 like you
are going to love hearing about this
recent Trend it's been slowly happening
it's something that here on YouTube they
refer to it as easy mode basically let
me just summarize this for you it's
creating content that isn't overly
polished it's simple you clicked on this
and we didn't create a fancy thumbnail
we just took a screenshot from this
video that's step one of easy mode so I
didn't have to send it off to an editor
I didn't have to have a fancy photo or
Graphics or somebody to created in canva
and to like really think about like what
words do I put on the title screen we
didn't even use any words it was just a
picture of me and that's known as easy
mode meaning it's easy mode because
well first of all frankly it's much
easier to do secondly it's easier for
consumption so what is easy mode it's
basically what you're watching right now
like I'm not going to be doing any edits
we're just going to post this we're
gonna I'm going to film this and we're
going to upload it I'm not going to take
out my ums and a I'm not going to take
out any stumbles I'm just going to
upload it like the same way I would be
talking to you in real life and I might
get sidetracked or I might get off topic
but we're still having this conversation
with easy mode that's really what you're
doing it's it's like a very honest
authentic conversation with your
audience and the reason why this works
is because this is this is my personal
take on this I
think we are too smart to be fooled by
people who it's like they seem clever
but the cleverness it's almost like too
good to be true they're doing so much
editing that Wonder like are they really
that sharp are they really that smart
are they really that entertaining are
they really that articulate and we can't
we don't know because we're watching
such an edited version of people and I
don't know if you've had the occasion to
like meet someone who has a ton of
followers online and then you meet them
in person you're like huh it's not what
I thought it's not the same person like
what some something's not translating
the reason why and I've had this happen
many times is because they have a Phenom
editor I'm just speaking to you
extemporaneously right now I've got some
notes here that I can refer to but I'm
not reading a script and I I'm just
speaking to you about something that's
of interest to you obviously you
wouldn't be watching this video and that
I'm really excited about or I wouldn't
be talking about so it's it's more of a
real conversation that's what easy mode
is easy mode is easier for you the
Creator and it's easier for the person
who's consuming there's something about
watching someone who's giving a
performance where your brain has to be
so busy figuring out like is this real
is this an act is this who they really
are there's one like one person just
popped into my head right now who I like
them in real I like them in real
life but I didn't know at first I only
knew them online and I didn't like them
because I'm like this is not real this
is not authentic nobody talks like that
nobody's that happy nobody's that
I don't know just it's just like and
then when I met them in person I'm like
there's so much like more normal in real
life by the way that person is going to
have a much tougher time connecting with
an older demographic and by older I mean
over 40 I'm 55 I'm proud because I just
think our BS meter is more finely tuned
like we can tell when someone's faking
it and easy mode that that's part of it
is like it's like it's allowing you to
be authentically you easy mode is also
sometimes described as like there's no
fancy equipment so I'm going to tell you
right now I am using a big light but I
don't often when I'm on in or when I'm
on YouTube cre use a a fancy light I I
buy this I have this like $15 light that
I travel with my camera I'm not even
using my laptop as my camera I'm using
an old iPhone using continuity camera
are familiar with that so if you're not
go to cat GPT and say how do I use my
iPhone with continuity camera and I
think it's probably I don't know it's
Pro I I don't know what year phone you
have to have but like if you're creating
content and I'm I'm using an old phone
right now so you know if it's a phone
that you've had in the last like three
or four years it'll work and the camera
is better the camera on an old iPhone or
Android phone is probably better than
any camera I'm going to have on my
laptop or and then I don't have to like
lug around or even figure out how to use
a fancy are they called dlsr DSLR D I
don't know you know I don't even use
fancy cameras because I like it easy
mode so I just hook my camera up and
it's from an iPhone it's very very
simple visual Simplicity makes it easier
for your audience to view things too
like you know there's some big YouTube
creators and they've got like flying
graphics and we feel like we have to
keep every the angles are changing every
two seconds you got a fancy background
and a you know fancy fonts and and sound
effects and all those
things but we really don't need it and I
don't know about you but the type of
content especially on Instagram and and
YouTube and even Tik Tok where there's
like fonts flying in and there's jump
cuts and you know fancy Graphics that
stuff just makes me feel like I'm losing
my mind it makes me feel like the world
is going too fast it makes me want to
like slow down it just it it does
something to my anxiety and we're seeing
a backlash we're seeing people turn away
from that type of content and turn
towards you can call it easy mode I like
to call it like just real not highly
produced authentic direct to camera
content and these are the creators who
are crushing it on Tik Tok Instagram
Facebook you YouTube Shorts YouTube long
form creators who have a wealth of
experience and with that experience
comes confidence you don't need to be wi
wrinkle-free you don't need to be you
know 30 something or 20 something to
kill it on any of these platforms you
need to be confident and with wi with
age comes wisdom and with that wisdom
comes confidence so confidently speak to
your audience about things that you are
already know and how great is it that
like just a simple screenshot from the
video might be all that you need on
YouTube split test it and see if that's
true for you for sure on Tik Tok that's
working I will say as someone who
teaches Instagram by the way shout out
to insta clubhub if you're not a member
we've got a special for you below insta
clubhub is the Instagram coaching
program it's a membership that myself
and my son teach and we've got thousands
and thousands of members and so we're
able to pull them all the time to figure
out like what is working and to be
honest Instagram's a little behind the
wheel a little wait not behind the wheel
a little behind the eightball a little
behind the times when it comes to this
authentic content look it's it's
starting to catch on but you still need
a pretty good thumbnail for your reels
in order for them to really catch on but
a very simple just screenshot of your
video on Tik Tok and on YouTube and even
YouTube shorts It's Working okay last
thing I want to tell you is why why I
think this is working I mentioned this
already but I think there's a
psychological element that makes us feel
like when something is super highly
produced we're like why it's almost like
when um you meet someone and they're so
over the Toop
or so overly friendly where you're
like are we hiding something you know
what I'm saying it's like when you walk
in and you're looking at a home if let's
say you're out home shopping and they
they've got cookies baking in the
kitchen and all the candles are late
you're like what what are we hiding here
and I think subconsciously we think to
ourselves when things are like super
highly edited and produced first of all
that person and that Creator feels less
relatable in order for us to like
believe something is true we have to
kind of relate to it so if the content
is so highly produced it feels too good
to be true it's really hard to relate to
it and if we're not relating to it it's
just not a brand that we necessarily
like or
trust so the advantage is confidence and
easy mode not having to put too much
into the production of it because you
don't need
to your message is what's going to carry
it forward
[Music]